# NBA-Overview-Dashboard
This repository contains files associated with the "NBA-Overview-Dashboard" project worked on by Ben Huston. This project was made to demonstrate some of my Tableau, MySQL, and Excel skills. The final product is published at: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/benedict.robert.huston/viz/NBAOverviewfortheCasualFan_/NBAdashboard<br /> <br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The purpose of this project was to create a Tableau dashboard that would help a casual basketball fan become more deeply immersed in the sport. I decided to make this project when I spent the entirety of an NBA game explaining to my friend the ins and out of the league. I thought this would be a fun solution that could educate those it concerns as to the leaders in different statistics, which teams found success recently (in the 2021 NBA season), and who my friend should root for moving forward (based on which teams have an exciting playstyle and are geographically close). 
<br /> <br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; To begin, I downloaded csv files from https://www.basketball-reference.com/. I then performed preprocessing (including cleaning and EDA) on these files using SQL and excel. Finally, I connected a tableau dashboard to this MYSQL database and created a dashboard to serve the overarching purpose of this project. 
<br /> <br />
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Note that the ZIP file above allows you to follow along with some of the preprocessing I performed in SQL. If you want you can just look over the SQL scripts; or alternitavely you can run the commands yourself by following the comments in nbadash.sql. The tableau workbook can also be rendered in tableau desktop using the "NBA Overview for the Casual Fan..twbx" file above. Please reach out to me with any further questions at Benedict.Huston@uvm.edu


